Git Commands Notes:
git init:
Purpose: Initializes a new, empty Git repository.
When used: To start tracking an existing local project directory with Git.
Example: git init

git status:
Purpose: Displays the state of the working directory and the staging area.
When used: To see which files are modified, staged, or untracked before committing.
Example: git status

git commit:
Purpose: Records changes to the repository's history.
When used: After staging files, to save a snapshot of your current work.
Example: git commit -m "Added initial project files"

git push:
Purpose: Uploads local repository content to a remote repository.
When used: To share your committed changes with others on GitHub.
Example: git push origin main

git fetch:
Purpose: Downloads objects and refs from another repository.
When used: To see what others have been working on without automatically merging those changes into your local work.
Example: git fetch origin

Repositories: The main storage space for your project. It contains all files, folders, and the complete revision history of the code.

Branches: A parallel version of the repository. It allows you to safely work on new features without breaking the main, stable version of the code.

Forks: A personal copy of another user's repository that lives on your account. It allows you to freely experiment with their code.

Pull Requests: A request to merge your customized branch or fork back into the main codebase, allowing others to review your code before it is integrated.

Issues: A tracking tool used to log bugs, request new features, or assign specific tasks to team members within a repository.

Stars: A bookmarking system. Starring a repository shows appreciation to the creator and makes it easy for you to find it later.

Watch: Subscribing to a repository. Watching ensures you receive notifications about new discussions, issues, or pull requests in that project.

Releases: Packaged, stable versions of your software that are ready for users to download, often including compiled code and release notes.

Discussions: A built-in forum for the repository where the community can ask questions, share ideas, and chat without opening a formal "Issue."

Actions: GitHub’s automation and CI/CD tool. It automatically runs scripts (like testing or deploying code) every time you push a command